Add writing-policies/spec/06-signature-verifier-policies.md (#109)
kubewarden/docs: src/writing-policies/spec/06-signature-verifier-policies.md

# Signature verifier policies

Kubewarden implements support for the [Sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev/)

> standard. This allows to implement a Secure Supply Chain for your cluster.

Reviewer: SLSA is the standard, Sigstore is the project / set of tools, tech etc.
```suggestion
project. This allows to implement a Secure Supply Chain for your cluster.
```

> Part of that is to ensure that all container images run the in the cluster are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Part of that is to ensure that all container images running in the cluster are
```

> signed and verified, proving that they come from their stated authors, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
signed proving that they come from their stated authors. With this we can also verify that they
```

Author: I would prefer to leave it as it is: having something signed doesn't prove that it comes from their stated authors until you verify the signature. Hence the "signed and verified" altogether.

> haven't been tampered with (for other concerns, see the docs on [how we implement a Secure Supply Chain for the policies themselves](TODO link to https://github.com/kubewarden/docs/pull/100/files)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
haven't been tampered with. For further reading, do check out the docs on [how we implement a Secure Supply Chain for the policies themselves](TODO link to https://github.com/kubewarden/docs/pull/100/files)).
```

> haven't been tampered with. For further reading, do check out the docs on [how we implement a Secure Supply Chain for the policies themselves](TODO link to https://github.com/kubewarden/docs/pull/100/files)).

Author: TODO missing link to sigstore docs

Author: Done in https://github.com/kubewarden/docs/pull/109/commits/61f35a09feffb32c79ada0703fc005184e656c48.

> Sigstore signatures of containers are stored as layers of the container image.
> Policies that want to check Sigstore signatures of containers need then to check
> those container layers, and would need to pull the signature layers to see the
> signatures themselves.

Reviewer 2: This feels confusing, at least to me. The way I read it, it looks like the signatures are stored inside of layers of the image that is being signed.

I would write this paragraph in a slightly different way:

```suggestion
Sigstore signatures are stored inside of container registries, next to the OCI object being signed;
be it a container image or a more generic OCI artifact,  like a Kubewarden policy.
Given an object to be signed, all its signatures are going to be stored as layers of a special OCI
object created by sigstore. 
Policies that want to check Sigstore signatures of containers need then to check
those layers, and would need to pull the signature layers to see the
signatures themselves.
```

> Obtaining and operating with those container layers needs to happen outside of
> the waPC guest (the policy), and on the waPC host (Kubewarden's
> `policy-server`).

Reviewer 2: I usually prefer to avoid the usage of waPC:

```suggestion
Obtaining and operating with those OCI layers needs to happen outside of
the WebAssembly guest (the policy). Hence this is done by the WebAssembly runtime: Kubewarden's
`policy-server` or `kwctl.
```

I also prefer to avoid the usage of "container" because this can work with any kind of OCI layer. Our primitives can work for verification of container images, kubewarden policies, helm charts and generally speaking any kind of OCI artifact.

Just like for context-aware policies, the guest-host intercommunication is
performed using the regular waPC host calling mechanism, and any guest
implementing the waPC intercommunication mechanism is able to request this

> information.

Reviewer 2: Ok, here we mention waPC again. We can leave it or drop the whole paragraph, after all the ma "magic" is done by the SDK and is not something relevant for the end user.

Author: indeed, done in https://github.com/kubewarden/docs/pull/109/commits/7b6920fa261a7c92632e084b3532db7215f61ada

> Kubewarden's `policy-server` or `kwctl.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kubewarden's `policy-server` or `kwctl.
```
```suggestion
Kubewarden's `policy-server` or `kwctl`.
```

The different language SDKs for Kubewarden policies take care of all that, and

> provide functions for container image verification. This ensures a safe and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
provide functions for verification of container image, Kubewarden policies, Helm charts and generally speaking any kind of OCI artifact. This ensures a safe and
```

> tested codepath for verification. In addition, pulling images and
> cryptographically verifying signatures can be time and computationally
> expensive, so the SDKs stack ensures that both the image pulls and the
> verification computations are cached.

Reviewer 2: Again, I'm trying to not make it about "just container images":

```suggestion
tested codepath for verification. In addition, pulling data from a registry and
cryptographically verifying signatures can be time and computationally
expensive, so the WebAssembly runtime (PolicyServer, `kwctl`) ensures both
signature pulls and verification computations are cached.
The cached entries are automatically expired after 60 seconds to prevent stale data from being served.
```

The SDKs provide functions similar to the following:
- ```
  verify_pub_keys_image(
      image_url: string,
      vector_of_pub_keys: vector<string>,
      vector_of_sigstore_annotations: Vector<(key, value: string)>
      )
      returns (is_trusted: bool, digest_of_verified_image: string)
  ```
- ```
  verify_keyless_exact_match(
      image_url: string,
      vector_of_tuples_issuer_and_subject: vector<(issuer, subject: string)>,
      vector_of_sigstore_annotations: vector<(key, value: string)>
      )
      returns (is_trusted: bool, digest_of_verified_image: string)
  ```

Both functions verify that the image is signed and satisfy the passed
constraints.

Note well: on success, the functions return the digest of the verified image. It
is now on the policy to ensure that containers are instantiated from that
digest, and not from tag that may or may not match that checksum digest (and
therefore be compromised).

## A concrete example

> The Kubewarden team [provides a verifier policy](TODO link to hub.kubewarden.io for the policy)

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately policy hub  doesn't allow permalinks. Just put the link to the GitHub repository of the policy:

```suggestion
The Kubewarden team [provides a verifier policy](https://github.com/kubewarden/verify-image-signatures)
```

that enforces Sigstore signatures for all containers, built on Rust and with the
Rust SDK. The policy ensures that the containers are signed, and optionally,
mutates the requests substituting the container tag for the exact checksum
of the image matching the verified signature. It has also quality of life

> additions on the UX, see its docs for specifics.

Reviewer 2: This is a personal taste, but I don't like the "It has quality of life"... statement. I would just say something like "check the policy documentation for more details about its settings"

Author: done in https://github.com/kubewarden/docs/pull/109/commits/7b6920fa261a7c92632e084b3532db7215f61ada!

> mutates the requests substituting the container tag for the exact checksum

Reviewer 3: it is appending the sha, not substituting the container tag. For example:

`ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:signed` will be replaced for:

`ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:signed@sha256:1d9d3da4c60d27b77bb96bba738319c1c4424853fdd10f65982f9f2ca2422a72`

Author: Indeed, thanks! Fixed in https://github.com/kubewarden/docs/pull/109/commits/75929103da9fa8bff51077ed864df3dc0758046d.
